---
layout: post
title: Yet Another Word Game
description: Of Course I Love Wordle
image: 
---
Wordle 214 5/6

🟨🟩🟨⬜⬜

🟨🟩🟨🟨⬜

⬜🟩⬜🟩🟩

⬜🟩🟩🟩🟩

🟩🟩🟩🟩🟩

Those that know me inevitably come to know my love for/obsession with word games. I am a religous solver of the New York Times daily crosswords, and I have even been known to participate in online crossword tournaments. The little piano riff that celebrates each solved puzzle rings out over my morning coffee, more often than not accompanied by a deep sense of personal satisfaction. I poke at the Spelling Bee throughout the day, anagramming my way through the lulls between meetings. When I watch Jeopardy, I always ace the "Before and After" or alliteration categories. It comes as no surprise that I love Wordle, the new word guessing game taking the internet by storm. 

Something about solving the daily Wordle lights up every word-obsessed synapse in my brain. Trying to think of every five letter word I know, increasingly more narrow parameters, little yellow, gray and green boxes! How exciting! On one momentous day, when I guessed the Wordle in two tries, I pumped my fist in the air like Tiger Woods winning the Masters. Maybe it's this little jolt of victory that keeps me coming back, day after day. A quick reward, a flash of dopamine in the midst of long, uninterrupted days on Zoom. 

Or maybe I am predisposed to being a Wordle freak. After all, I already devote part of each day to word games. Wordle scratches at the same itch that had me poring over Richard Scary's word books at a young age. The same itch that gave me a rather odd habit of trying to use the biggest words I knew in coversation with my classmates in grade school. Regardless of where my deep, enthusiastic love for Wordle and its contemporaries comes from, I still keep coming back for more. 
